[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: The
one artifact in the field
of ufology that's created the
most controversy to this day is
called the "Alien Autopsy."
It's a film in which
a medical team is
dissecting a little alien body.
It's been declared as one of the
biggest hoaxes in UFO history.
But is it?
Today, we're going to
talk with a man who
is privy to the original
film more than 25 years ago,
Maurizio Baiata, along with our
in-house UFO researcher, Paola
Harris.
Paola, welcome.
Maurizio, welcome.
This has been crazy.
I'm listening to you guys
speaking in Italian here,
so I don't have any
idea what's going on.
>> PAOLA HARRIS: Ciao, Maurizio.
>> MAURIZIO BAIATA: Ciao, Paola.
Ciao, everybody.
Ciao!
>> REGINA: I'm happy
to have you here.
This is going to be a
fascinating discussion.
>> HARRIS: Maurizio was
my boss for 20 years,
so it's like old home
week, a big reunion for me.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
that for a moment, Paola.
Your boss in what context?
So people understand
your relationship
to Maurizio and the whole story.
>> HARRIS: Yeah.
Actually, I moved to
Italy for 15 years, 1994.
And then I just
returned in 2007.
And while I was there,
Maurizio had found out
that I had worked
with J. Allen Hynek.
So, isn't this true, Maurizio?
And then he said, well, no.
You're coming to work for
us at the Futura Agency,
where we put out "Area
51" magazine and "Xtimes."
And he said, we're
going to send you back
to America and everywhere.
And you do the stories.
In fact, did Colonel
Corso for you.
At the 50th anniversary, I did--
I returned to Roswell
several times.
I did the Michael Wolf case.
And I was traveling
reporter for this group
of people that became a family.
So when I left to Italy--
and I still write for
"Xtimes" magazine,
because that's the only place
I can deposit my stories right
now.
When I left Italy,
I left to family.
So I'm so excited to
see Maurizio, my boss.
I don't call him Maurizio,
I always call him boss.
>> REGINA: You always
call him the boss.
>> HARRIS: And he always
called me La Harris, La Harris.
He never called me Paola.
>> REGINA: Well, and I had the
pleasure of meeting Maurizio
when we were all doing our
story out of Sardinia last year.
We all met together
in Rome, which
is the first time I
met you face-to-face,
which was such a pleasure.
>> BAIATA: Exactly.
>> REGINA: You're such a
knowledgeable, and also,
just so articulate on the
subject matter of ufology.
And I would like you
to tell the audience
a little bit, Maurizio,
about how you ended up
becoming involved in the
subject of extraterrestrials,
UFOs and so forth.
Because in Italy, it's
taken much more seriously
by the populace at large than
it is in the United States.
Our government has kept it in
the area of the giggle factor
and it's just now
starting to come out.
So tell us, how did this happen?
How did you get involved?
>> BAIATA: I was involved with
this type of research just
because I'm a journalist.
I was born as a
journalist, basically,
as a music journalist.
And I started writing in the
very early '70s regarding rock
and roll, and so far, so on.
Then when I moved
to United States
at the beginning of
the '80s, I found
myself involved in a
different type of, let's say,
environment, because
I had to face myself
with the reality of
investigative journalism,
which, in Italy at the time,
we didn't know what really was,
you know?
>> REGINA: Well, wait a second.
Let me ask you a quick question.
Investigating other journalists,
or in investigative journalism?
>> BAIATA: Investigative
journalist.
>> REGINA: Wow.
>> BAIATA: I am a journalist
still for the American Guild
of Newspapers.
>> REGINA: OK.
OK.
OK, that helps us understand.
Go ahead.
>> BAIATA: And you know, music
is a field where you can have
the chance to meet
lots of people,
very interesting people, such
as, for instance, David Bowie,
who for me, was sort of an
alien in his type of creativity
and so far, so on.
And at that time, I was
already into ufology
in these studies of
what is there, you know?
I wanted to understand that.
And my attitude was
search, research,
check the sources,
and then in case,
write it for a
newspaper or a magazine.
When I got back to
Italy, I had the chance
to open a couple of magazines.
And the stories went
so far and so on.
>> REGINA: Thank you
for explaining that,
so everybody has a chance
to know you a bit better.
So essentially,
hardcore journalist.
So checking facts,
rechecking facts,
checking sources is really
critical to your job.
And so we're about to go down
a rabbit hole that I don't know
anyone could have ever fully
checked out, because it has
the strangest bedfellows, OK?
Here, we're talking
about throwing
in a little bit of a search
for Elvis Presley film,
a little bit of Steven
Spielberg claiming he
has alien video, and other
filmmakers and journalists
and military, and
everything else involved.
So I hardly know where to
begin with this, so let's
start at the beginning.
So how did you
originally find out
about the existence of
original footage, which
then later became a
template for a film that
was then labeled a hoax?
OK.
>> BAIATA: Well, the beginning
of the beginning was a telefax.
You know, at that time, we
didn't have any other type
of communication situations.
And in that teletype, somebody
said that Steven Spielberg
had acquired some rolls,
original rolls of film,
original film, you know?
Not video stuff.
And this material contained
the images of an alien autopsy.
So what I wanted to understand
was if this story was for real.
So we checked it with--
from Italy, we checked it
with the production company
of Spielberg.
Nobody gave us an answer.
So I understood either
Spielberg was lying,
or he was just going
a little too fast.
You know what I mean?
And that's my point.
I believe that
Spielberg was involved
in the beginning of this story.
But then he magically
disappeared,
and the next guy came out of
the blue and into the scene,
was Ray Santilli.
>> REGINA: Tell us now--
Maurizio, first of all, was
this around 1994, '93, '94?
>> BAIATA: Sure.
>> REGINA: 1994?
>> BAIATA: Yes.
>> REGINA: A little
over 25 years ago?
OK.
Now, so we kind of have it set.
So Steven Spielberg
was very, very
highly developed in his career.
And if anyone was at a
high enough profile level
to have maybe obtained this
financially and otherwise
through back channels,
it could have, possibly.
>> BAIATA: It could.
>> REGINA: We'll just
leave it at that.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, yeah, it could.
But Spielberg, at a too high
ranking official position,
in the world of the
big cinema business.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BAIATA: So somebody else
probably used Santilli,
who was a little lower in the
status quo of the productions
and distribution of
images and the word.
>> REGINA: So tell us
a little bit about Ray
Santilli's background, because
all of this kind of hinges
around him.
Who was this guy?
>> BAIATA: Yeah, Santilli
was a documentary producer.
And his special interest
was actually music.
That's why we got in touch,
almost, in the beginning.
Because he was confident
that I understood music.
And it was, you know, we
shared the same good opinion,
the one to each other.
In other words, we
were self-confident
that nobody was just, you
know, trekking it around,
if I can say this word.
So we met in Cannes in--
I believe that was between
February or early March 1995.
>> REGINA: In Cannes, France,
where they hold the Cannes Film
Festival.
>> BAIATA: Exactly.
It was either Midcom or
MidTV, I don't recall it.
We sat at the Martinez.
We had a lunch.
And he immediately said,
well, Maurizio, you
know, we have to talk about the
footage that I have acquired,
which is in fact, an autopsy.
He never use the
word alien autopsy.
He said, I acquired
some materials,
some material, some film--
original film-- which depicts
the ascension of a being.
That's it, you know?
A being.
And he said to me,
you are a ufologist?
Yes.
OK, good.
For the rest of your life,
you're going to be, you know,
staying with the
doubt of what are
you going to see one of these
days, when I can show you
the material if you come to
London and I show it to you.
>> REGINA: OK, so how much
time passed and before you did
ultimately go to
London to see the film?
>> BAIATA: Maybe a little
more than a month because, I
wasn't--
I arrived in London
on April 2015.
>> REGINA: OK, so
shortly thereafter.
So now you arrive in London.
Are you by yourself, or are
there other people present?
>> BAIATA: No I
was just by myself.
>> REGINA: So you and Ray
Sintilli met at his apartment
or his home?
>> BAIATA: No, in his office.
>> REGINA: In his office, OK.
>> BAIATA: Yeah,
in Balcombe Street,
he had this not gigantic office.
>> REGINA: So let's get, then,
to the evidence that he showed
you.
Because by then, he's
saying that this evidence
was from the 1940s.
There was some
presumption it could have
been from the Roswell crash.
Others are saying there
were other crashes that
happened because
they're conflicting
not only stories,
but also visuals, OK?
So let's talk about what you
saw from these canisters, which
by now, was pretty degenerated.
>> BAIATA: Yeah the canisters
were lying on his office.
There were about 15 or 16,
not too large, actually.
Probably, let's say,
about 20 inches--
a little more-- 15 inches each.
And each one of them
contained a roll of film
originally, I believe, that
was shot on 16 millimeters.
And there was at three minutes
each reel lent, approximately.
Now he said to me,
Maurizio, have a look here.
So he goes like.
He opened one can.
He goes like this,
and I look into it.
And he's saying, it's decaying.
It's oxidizing, and we don't
want to lose all the material.
So most of this material
will go to a laboratory
where they can try to save it.
But I already saw stuff
as images containing,
for instance, Truman was there.
The President of the United
States at that time was there.
And you know, the
recovery team was
close to a disk in the middle
of nowhere in the desert,
you know?
And the bodies were
lying out of the disk.
He said, I saw all this stuff.
>> REGINA: OK, let me--
let's back up one moment.
He's saying that they
saw the disk, which
was the site of the crash.
They saw the bodies
that had been taken out
and were lying around
it, or had crawled out.
He's saying that President
Truman was present?
>> BAIATA: --was there, yeah.
>> REGINA: He was
present for this?
So he had been flown
in to witness this?
OK.
This is what he's
saying thus far.
OK.
Let's continue from there.
And the recovery
team were the people
that were taking the bodies
away, because they do--
Clifford Stone, Paola has done
a lot of work with Clifford.
I've interviewed him.
Clifford Stone has talked to
us in detail about how recovery
teams work with UFO crashes.
So let's continue from here.
>> BAIATA: Well, let's say
that by that time, in 1947,
I don't think that the American
military were so ready to, you
know--
>> REGINA: That's true.
That was later.
They started training people
after that to do it properly.
This was ad hoc.
>> BAIATA: However, if we
consider that there was
a president, a previous accident
occurred in New Mexico and that
was in San Antonio.
And Paola investigated,
thoroughly, that situation,
I believe, two years before.
Also, this was not Roswell.
Santilli used, wrongly,
the word Scirocco.
>> REGINA: Scirocco?
>> BAIATA: He said scirocco
instead of Socorro.
Santilli told me, Maurizio, all
the information I can give you
is taken from a
written statement
by the original cameraman.
And I said, what's
the name of this guy?
And he's still alive?
Yeah, yeah, he's still alive.
He's in his early 80's
and he lives somewhere.
I cannot disclose, you know,
his house and whereabout,
and whatever.
Because we are just, let's
say, respecting the word
that we gave him, you know?
Not to disclose his
name and whatever.
But at that time in 1947,
he was a military cameraman.
He was a combat camera operator.
>> REGINA: OK, now
let's talk about this,
because this is where the
story gets sticky and tricky.
Because people are going
to say, hold on a minute.
How did that camera
operator for the military
make off with this film?
How did that happen?
You would think-- you would
think that it would been--
would have been in some kind
of very secure vault held
by the military somewhere.
So what happened
as far as you know?
>> BAIATA: What happened
was that later on in the, I
believe, late '50s, around
'57-'58, this guy was shooting
lots of concerts.
And actually, he had
footage of Presley.
>> REGINA: Elvis Presley, yeah.
>> BAIATA: Elvis, exactly.
So the reason why they met
him was because Santilli
was looking for Presley
material, Presley footage.
>> REGINA: Gotcha.
>> BAIATA: So they went.
I believe there
were-- both of them,
Santilli and Gary
Shoefield, his partner.
They went together,
and they met this guy
at his house, his home.
And after, this guy said,
OK, this is the stuff
that I have regarding Presley.
But at the end of it, I have
also some other material
that I want to show to you.
Before, I was, let's
say, a private operator,
I was a military operator.
And it happened to me that
I was called by a general
to go and film a UFO crash.
I mean, they didn't use
this word, but said,
an airplane accident, you know?
A military airplane
accident which
occurred in the night
of the 31st of May 1947
in the area, the
area of Socorro.
>> REGINA: OK, so this is
just a couple of months prior
to Roswell, the Roswell
crash in July '47?
>> BAIATA: One month
exactly before.
>> REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BAIATA: So we had
two different locations
and they're not related
at all, you know?
So I don't know who
got there first,
but for sure, this guy,
the cameraman, went there
and he filmed everything.
Then some months
later, weeks and months
later, he said that he
filmed also the autopsies
in some other
premises, actually,
in some medical laboratories
or morgues, you know?
Not on the spot.
On the spot, he said
that he filmed inside
in a tent in the
middle of the desert.
He filmed the so-called
metal fragments--
>> REGINA: Metal fragments?
OK.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, they were all
lying on two tables, you know.
And they were fragments,
but among these fragments
were also the I-beams, actually,
or T-beams, such as like this
and like this.
>> REGINA: Are you talking
about like a little laser beam
device?
>> BAIATA: No.
Actually, there are
just construction parts.
>> REGINA: Oh,
construction parts.
OK.
All right.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, exactly.
>> REGINA: So let me ask how--
>> BAIATA: Very light,
very light material.
And some of them
had symbols on them.
>> REGINA: OK, so now let me
ask a quick question of Paola.
So Paola, 1945, right?
That was San Antonio.
>> HARRIS: San Antonio,
but it's near Socorro.
So all that area, yeah.
>> REGINA: And so then,
end of May '47, Socorro.
Then Roswell in
early July of '47.
>> HARRIS: Right.
>> REGINA: What was it about
this area that you've been able
to discern that created so
much activity and also crashes?
>> HARRIS: Well, the hypothesis
that I'm using is that this is
where the Manhattan Project
was in Trinity White Sands,
and you know, it's
close to Socorro.
And that opened up not
only the nuclear age,
but that opened up
a lot of speculation
as far as this
species on this planet
having become a
dangerous species.
And we know that
any kind of bomb,
or any kind of use
of nuclear power,
is going to go into
other dimensions.
So this is my hypothesis.
>> REGINA: So it was what--
the proximity to White Sands,
but why were they crashing?
>> HARRIS: Well, first
of all, in that time,
there was radar
that were portable.
I mean, portable, they could
go from place to place.
And this radar was used
as a security device
because the people in the
Manhattan Project, Oppenheimer
and all those people--
Fatami-- they were
worried that the Russians
would gain access or knowledge
about what they were doing.
It was top secret.
So these radars would
give information
if anybody was
going to infiltrate.
But there was another thing.
And I've noticed that
for a lot of the crashes,
New Mexico has terrible
thunderstorms with thunder
and lightning.
And there is a time
you don't go there
where it's terrible, more than
anyplace else I've ever been.
So the possibility,
if you're going
to use the hypothesis
that there was a lightning
and thunderstorm that
brings them down,
is one that we've used.
And the proximity of
Roswell to not only
White Sands, but the fact
that the Enola Gay and all
of 509 bomb squadron
was housed there,
which was going to drop the
bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki,
interested something
or somebody.
>> REGINA: OK.
And I can validate that
just through my own research
as well, and that
military bases seem
to be where there's always
been a lot of UFO activity,
especially if you have any
kind of warheads involved.
So this makes sense,
that other species--
not just one, but
other species--
were checking in
and keeping an eye
on what was going
on here because it
was about to have
implications on a larger scale
throughout the cosmos,
perhaps, but certainly,
in our solar system, if
we're going to be detonating
nuclear bombs and such.
>> HARRIS: Well, you
know the thing, Regina,
that's interesting is this is
the history of planet Earth.
It's not just ufology
because this started
a whole series of events.
And I always say,
just kidding around,
the ETs are not on vacation.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> HARRIS: So this started
a whole series of historical
events.
So we're looking at a
historical perspective.
So I'm so glad Maurizio's
giving you the details how
this came about.
Because the UFO community has
so much disinformation on this,
on this autopsy, how it came
about, so forth, and so on,
that when he's talking,
it makes perfect sense.
>> REGINA: Yes.
That's why I want to be very
clear and detailed on how
he came about seeing it.
OK, thank you for that, Paola.
So Maurizio, back to your story.
And you finally have a chance
to see some of this footage
with your own eyes.
And then we're going to
learn that what you saw
was not what was later reflected
in that reenactment film that
became known as the hoax.
But you saw two
different canisters
of two different events, and
two different kinds of bodies.
And let's talk about
one which we're
going to show images of,
because you wrote me an email
this morning.
And you said you called
Wendy and explained
to her what was going
on in the autopsy
of this little
female alien body.
And you were kind
of freaked out.
It was very emotional for you to
relay this information to her.
So now let's--
we've set the stage.
Tell us what you saw.
>> BAIATA: Well, first
of all, I was not alone.
I was with a very nice
guy, a nice fellow,
whose name was Reg Presley.
And I know that--
I knew at that time, that guy,
because it was an honor for me
to meet, in person, the
lead singer of a band called
The Troggs.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BAIATA: A British band,
very famous in the '60s.
And Reg was a very good
friend with Santilli.
So we went out to lunch
close to Santilli's office.
And then after
lunch, we were just
sitting on, you know, in front
of this not gigantic monitor
at all, a very humble, old
TV set, and not even big,
you know.
And Santilli goes like, OK,
now I show you this thing.
I leave you right here.
Don't worry about that.
And you know, he's
British, but actually, I
don't know why that guy,
when he was talking to me,
he didn't ever,
ever use Italian,
even though maybe he
knew some Italian.
Because Santilli is--
>> REGINA: Santilli's Italian.
>> BAIATA: --is Italian, OK?
So I sit there with Reg Presley.
The-- the, uh--
the movie goes on, starts.
And I'm stunned.
I was really destroyed
by what I saw.
>> REGINA: What did you see?
>> BAIATA: Well, you know, this
body was just lying on this
slab.
Legs were pretty open.
And and the body
was totally intact.
No-- no damages
at all, you know?
So I said, OK.
This is strange.
Let me see a little better.
OK, six fingers.
That's a main difference
with all the stories
that we know about the
grays or the humans
with five fingers and the
grays with four fingers.
No, this-- this being, this
creature, had six fingers.
And they were very,
very clearly--
because the ends
were going like this.
And then I saw the
feet, six fingers.
Everything was
perfectly detailed.
Everything was very natural.
I don't see anything that, to
me, gave the idea that there
was a puppet or whatever,
there was a construction.
Not at all.
And it was so
poignant, that Reg,
I believe that he was
starting either crying,
or he was very, very
emotional, more than me, OK?
>> REGINA: Let's talk for
a moment about the facial
features.
Were they more kind of human,
or more gray, or a combination?
>> BAIATA: That's what
I thought, very human.
That's my-- very human,
very close to a human.
>> REGINA: But small, small
bodies, small shoulders.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, small body,
a round-- a very round face.
I mean, regular mouth, little
nose, and barely visible ears.
Now the thing is, that
by then, I'd never
seen before a real autopsy--
I mean, on a human being.
So when the guys--
I mean, the doctors--
one doctor.
I believe there was only one.
Maybe there was an
assistant, but I was just
taken by the doctor activities,
which was very fast.
He opened the
chest of this being
like this with a vertical
incision, all right?
And then he opened the chest
and exposed the organs,
like everything done in
very quickly, you know?
It was quick.
Then, he moved down to
the low abdomen area.
And he inspected
what we had to call
a vagina, which
was already opened
before because it was stitched.
That really stunned me.
>> REGINA: Wait a minute.
It was stitched?
So the vagina was stitched
closed, so he unstitched it?
>> BAIATA: Yep.
On the top of it--
on the top of it, there
were stitches, you know?
I don't think that
that was, let's say,
a detail that a creator
of special effects
will ever leave there to--
I mean, it was too raw, too raw.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
Yeah, that was too raw.
And so one would
ostensibly think
they might have
been looking to see
how the reproductive system may
have worked in these beings?
OK.
>> BAIATA: Yes.
So the doctor introduced--
I mean, put-- inserted in the
vagina, a long, very long,
let's say, it was just
sort of a stick instrument,
probably metallic instrument,
and extracted some filaments--
whitish, white filaments,
going like this.
Very strange, very
strange things.
>> REGINA: Well, now, this
point must have been--
now at this point,
just emotionally,
you're already struck on it.
But this has to have been pretty
traumatizing at this point
to even watch.
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: I mean, just
hearing about it is--
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
And only three or four
minutes after the beginning
of the operation, I was
just going like this.
I didn't know what to say.
I was, you know,
mute, totally mute.
Couldn't say anything at all.
>> REGINA: No,
what could you say?
Yeah.
>> BAIATA: And the images
were going on, you know?
And so they opened--
the doctor went-- the
surgeon went again
on the chest area, exposed
the internal organs.
And what I remember
distinctively, he got--
with a sort of
instrument, he took out
a triangular shaped
bright object--
>> REGINA: Bright?
>> BAIATA: --which
I don't know what--
very bright, almost luminous
object from the chest,
from the left side.
What I mean, this is the
creature here on the left, OK?
And I don't know--
then, I believed at
this time, I believed
that either the operation
wasn't completely shot, meaning
that they cut it in sections.
In fact, the entire
duration of this--
of this dissection was
less than 11 minutes.
>> REGINA: So they may
have turned the camera off
for certain parts and then said
start shooting again when they
got to key bits?
>> BAIATA: Yes.
Yes.
>> REGINA: All right.
OK, so that was the first
film, the 11 minute film
of the female entity that looked
distinctly humanoid but very
slim limbs, six fingers,
humanoid features on the face,
little female, and short.
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BAIATA: And no--
this is important--
no damages at all.
Now I don't recall if this--
on this creature, I
really don't recall if I
saw the sawing of the crani--
of the skull.
I don't--
>> REGINA: This-- when they
sawed through the cranium?
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So we'll leave that,
because if you don't recall,
let's just leave that alone.
But as you say, the
being was intact.
So it didn't-- it didn't die
from any particular impact
or trauma.
Obviously, it was something
else, because we don't even
know what kind of atmosphere
they can survive in
or what they can
breathe, or anything.
So they could have
died by any means.
We just don't know, right?
>> BAIATA: Mm-hmm.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BAIATA: Then Reg and I
decided to ask Santilli,
we go like, shall we ask him
to watch it again, please?
Because 11 minutes went
like, you know, a meteor.
And so, yeah.
And Santilli very politely
made us, you know,
watching it again.
So-- but then again, I
don't recall exactly.
My account is on the internet,
because when other researchers
wanted to know if I was really
watching the first autopsy
and the other guys who
show the first autopsy,
meaning Colin Anders,
Philip Mantle, and I don't--
I don't recall the others.
We were-- at the
end of the game,
five people had the chance
to see the first autopsy.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BAIATA: So I went back to
Rome exactly the same day.
But before I catch the flight,
I called my wife, Wendy,
and I described to her
exactly what I saw.
>> REGINA: And she
did this picture?
>> BAIATA: Exactly.
And that depicts
exactly, perfectly,
the body of the first autopsy.
>> REGINA: All right, Maurizio.
So now, let's go to the
second film you saw.
>> BAIATA: OK, the
second film that I saw,
we were 200 people getting
together at the Museum
of Roswell at the
center of town.
We were all invited by Santilli.
One-- well, let's say that the
reason why he did this show
in London was because he wanted
to sell the rights of this
stuff--
>> REGINA: Sure.
>> BAIATA: --all over
the world, you know?
So I believe that
Kiviat, Bob Kiviat,
was there as far
as the Americans
with Fox, and many others.
Big brass from everywhere--
>> REGINA: So a lot of film
companies were represented
there.
Were there some
from Europe as well?
Or was it all US film companies?
>> BAIATA: As far as European
that I know was Michael
Hesemann and some Germans,
TV representatives.
The French guys were also
there, TF2, I believe.
And as far as the
Italians, Rai Due, Rai 2--
one of the most important
Italian TV networks--
was represented by
Giovanni Minoli.
And I was assisting
Giovanni Minoli
in getting there, and also
Pinotti, as far as the other.
>> REGINA: So this was a big
scene with a lot of people
vying to be the first to
market with this film.
OK, go ahead.
>> BAIATA: He gave
to us a press kit,
where it was very clearly stated
that that was the so-called
Roswell footage.
>> REGINA: Roswell?
>> BAIATA: --footage.
>> REGINA: Roswell footage, OK.
>> BAIATA: --which I
believe is it is a very--
it's a major mistake
because it wasn't
Roswell at all, first of all.
And the story of
the Anvil Operation.
The Anvil Operation
was the story--
was the operation, the
military operation,
the recovery operation in
which also, the cameraman
was involved for filming.
You know, his business
was filming it.
So we read that stuff.
And then lights down,
and then the projection
of the second
autopsy, 18 minutes.
Technically, all different
as far as the incision,
for instance.
But also, the most
startling difference
was that this body, the second
body, was heavily damaged.
It had a big wound on his right.
>> REGINA: Big
gash on the thigh.
Yeah.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, big, big, big.
The bones were
exposed, you know?
And it was a bone there.
Also, technically,
as I said before,
the incision was performed with
a different, very different,
technique, which
is currently still
in use in the modern morgues--
you know, in the--
well, by the way, I went
to the Roman morgue.
And I saw two autopsy.
And the first one
was performed exactly
with the same technique.
>> REGINA: Now what was
the difference in the two
techniques?
>> BAIATA: Well, the second--
the second one, it's
a Y incision, 1, 2, 3.
From here, from one
shoulder to the abdomen,
the other shoulder down
here, and then go down
to the lower abdomen.
Then, the reason
why they use this
is to expose the rib
cage very quickly
and then cut the rib cage,
you know, open the rib cage,
and extract the organs.
So this is what happened
during the second autopsy.
Plus, there was the
sawing of the skull.
>> REGINA: The sawing
of the cranium.
Yeah.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, exactly, but
not anything like they were
doing in the other autopsy.
That's it.
And I don't recall either if
the triangular bright object
was extracted also in
the second autopsy.
I don't recall it.
>> REGINA: Now it seems, from
looking at the alien autopsy
film, which ended up being
the recreation of it,
that the being may have
been gender neutral.
You couldn't really tell
what sex it was per se?
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
The-- the little
opening was still there,
so probably, this was either
a neutral or a puppet.
I don't know that.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BAIATA: I definitely
don't know that.
I don't know if
Santilli really had
the chance of having the real
material, the good material,
and then being
forced because the--
being forced to reconstruct,
to rehearse everything--
gave him the task to
rehearse to a director.
And you know, and having
the second autopsy released,
inserting some original
frames into the entire--
>> REGINA: So what--
I think what I'm
hearing, then, is he
had fragments-- it's possible
that he had fragments
of the original film and then
they built in the recreation
films within it to create what
looked consistent with what
the original film had?
>> BAIATA: Exactly.
That's his point that
he maintains still now.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BAIATA: He keeps--
well, you know, he changed
his version many times.
And I don't think that it's
because he's delusional
or a confused person, you know?
Santilli is very,
very intelligent.
He made the deal of the
century, absolutely.
I tell you what, I don't--
I don't know the exact figures,
but we are talking about tens
of million dollars, you know?
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Of course.
Of course, this is the
hottest thing out there.
Right.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, OK.
>> REGINA: Well, I have a quote
from them which says, quote,
"I maintain the original
film was real and as stated,
we restored and recreated
elements of the film to give it
the look of a cohesive autopsy."
So that's what he says.
There's no one that can
really verify it besides him.
He's the only one that had
access to the original.
But the point is,
the film was then--
this film was then
made as a recreation
to show people what had
happened in that autopsy.
What then happened?
Well, first, let's take
a look at this little bit
of film and trailer
so people understand
what we're talking about here.
Let's just play this
for a second, OK?
[EERIE MUSIC]
>> On August 28, 1995, a
remarkable film depicting
the autopsy of a humanoid
life form was transmitted
into the homes of millions of
television viewers worldwide.
The horrific but
compelling images
started a heated
international debate.
>> It's the story
of the Millennium.
>> If it's a true document, it
is a document of exceptional
importance.
If it's a fake, it
should be hailed
as one of the most extraordinary
fakes ever put together
by a filmmaker.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> REGINA: What happened
politically after this came
out?
Now everybody's fighting
among themselves.
Now we're saying the
biggest hoax in UFO history,
and on and on.
So sitting from where
you are sitting,
watching this whole show,
essentially, what happened?
>> BAIATA: I was very angry
at Santilli and also the other
ufologists present, who attended
the showing at the London
museum, were very disappointed.
Because we were
expecting other images.
We were expecting what
Santilli promised, like,
for instance, Truman
and the disk embedded
in the soil in the
middle of nowhere,
and so far, so on,
the recovery team--
not at all.
I mean, not even a frame of it.
So it also didn't
state anything at all.
I mean, he was
somewhere else now.
He was-- he was the magician.
Santilli was the magician,
not Spyros Melaris,
in order to make this--
>> REGINA: Wait, wait,
back up a minute.
Because you've just introduced a
name our audience doesn't know.
So now say, you were
talking about Santilli
being the magician, A,
explain what that means.
And when you said not Spyro.
So please, go ahead and
explain what happened here.
>> BAIATA: The reason why I
mentioned Spyros Melaris is
because this guy is
a great magician.
He is very-- it's seemingly--
is very, very proficient, very
good.
In creating special
effects, he contends
that he is the director
of the second autopsy.
>> REGINA: The alien
autopsy we know, yeah.
>> BAIATA: Yeah, exactly, that
he shot in a flat out in, I
believe, it's called
Camden in somewhere--
>> REGINA: Yes, mm-hmm.
>> BAIATA: --somewhere there.
And that he uses
friends also his mom--
I don't know,
everybody was there--
to shoot that material.
And he gave the new footage,
the new videos, to Santilli.
And that's it.
I mean, and he appeared
for about 10 years.
Then in 2006,
something happened.
Santilli was interviewed
by a chap named--
well, yeah, in a program,
in a British program
called "Eamonn Investigates"
in Great Britain.
He was interviewed and he
said for the first time,
that that material was no
bueno, no good, all right?
And that something
else happened,
such as that he had to
recover what he could,
and that the original frames
were inserted in other--
in a movie that was shot
by some somebody else--
that John Humphreys, creator
of special effects, very good
creator of special effects--
created the creature, the second
creature, that the bodies--
I mean, the body, the body
was totally destroyed.
I mean, the puppet was
totally destroyed and buried
somewhere in--
I don't know where-- in
London, that all the guys who
participated to the
shooting were, you know,
intended not to word anything
at all out from their mouth,
you know, for the
rest of their--
>> REGINA: So they had all
declared kind of secrecy around
working on this project, yeah?
>> BAIATA: Exactly.
By then, I believe that
the name of Spyros Melaris
came out, because he was the
director of that shooting.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BAIATA:
Unfortunately, until now,
Spyros Melaris did
not kept his promise,
which was I will produce a
video in which I will show you
everything that I had
done for this operation.
I will write a book.
You're going to have
everything clearly
and openly explained, how
I was involved and why.
In all these years, until
now, Santilli and Melaris
are fighting each other,
but not legal fights,
just verbal fight.
So even this is a little fishy
to me, because money talks, OK?
Now this guy made
a ton of money--
>> REGINA: Santilli?
>> BAIATA: --yeah, Santilli.
The other one did
everything and he
didn't get even a penny
out of it, or very little.
I don't know,
something is wrong.
Also, the others kept
their mouths shut.
Even a certain Gareth, who
played the role of the guy
with a mask on behind a
window, a glass window.
You know, he was observing
from, you know, out
of the dissection room.
He was observing everything.
Now getting to,
for instance, how
can you reproduce exactly
all the instrument and specs
of a situation like that?
It takes you years
to get to have
that phone with a curly wire
exactly there, or the watch--
>> REGINA: Clock on the wall.
>> BAIATA: --clock on the wall,
all the surgical instruments
exactly reproducing
the ones used by--
all right, the Italians,
conducted by me,
were so stubborn in
research, for instance.
To research the table, I mean,
the slab where the creature was
lying, you know,
and dissected, none
was able to find the table.
>> REGINA: So Maurizio, because
we could talk for hours about
all of this part, the
in-fighting and accusations
among people, where money
went, where money didn't go--
ufologers who put other
ufologers work down.
And it goes on and on and on.
There are a lot of
shadowy figures here
and there are a lot of really
wonderful figures here.
In the end, when somebody
watches this film
"Alien Autopsy," are
they seeing any kind
of somewhat accurate
recreation of that second film,
in your opinion?
>> BAIATA: Yes, I think so.
Because what is really important
to understand in this story
is that nobody prior
to the Santilli footage
ever came out with the
aliens, six fingers alien.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BAIATA: This is major.
This is very
important, you know.
And the idea that
some of us came
regarding this very peculiar
thing of the six fingers
is because maybe in the
future, human beings
will have more fingers
in their hands, you know?
Yeah, maybe.
>> REGINA: Maybe.
Maybe this is some
future iteration.
Yeah.
>> BAIATA: Maybe.
But there is also one important
peculiar story to say,
talk about briefly.
In the year 2000 and
something, a movie came out.
Santilli was involved
not in the production,
but somehow, he was involved
with this British company
called Qwerty Films.
>> REGINA: How do you say?
Q-U-E-R-T-Y?
>> BAIATA: Q-W-E-R-T-Y, Qwerty.
>> REGINA: Yeah, like
a QWERTY keyboard.
>> BAIATA: Qwerty films produced
this movie called "The Alien
Autopsy."
"The Alien Autopsy"
reconstructs, from scratch,
everything regarding this story.
The role of Santilli
and Shoefield
are played by two comic
actors, British comic actors.
And the story goes
such as, we found
that we have to go
to the United States
in order to buy that material.
We go there.
We see that stuff, and then
when we get back, the canisters,
everything is gone--
I mean, unfortunately,
wasn't usable anymore.
The cameraman saved one
canister, one last canister,
containing 40--
what was it?
A minute and a half
of footage which--
black and white footage,
which is inserted
in the end of the comic
movie called "Alien Autopsy"
that went in theaters
all over, and that you
can buy in the video stores,
eventually buy, whatever.
This 40-- I mean this
minute and 1/2 images
in black and white
show many militarys
surrounding a body lying on a
slab on the floor, open air.
This scene is shot outside.
And all these guys are going,
like, crazy around this body.
You understand that the body
has six fingers because we,
with Alberto, our
graphic director,
were able to find that detail
of the six fingers is there.
But the images are just a
little blurred, you know?
And a truck is arriving,
a military truck.
All these guys are wearing
either uniforms or other suits
which you can put--
you can say-- you can say
maybe these are, you know,
people were there because they
had to be there in that moment.
>> REGINA: --in a
professional capacity, yeah.
>> BAIATA: Yeah.
And the movie ends
like that, you know?
>> REGINA: OK.
So essentially, it
was like a soft way
of getting the
original thing out
without creating all the
stir within the UFO community
and all the infighting.
>> BAIATA: That's the reason,
because I asked Santilli
if that footage was
the real footage.
And he said yes.
So I was working
with "Open Minds" TV.
And I was the editor-in-chief
of "Open Minds Magazine"
in the United States and
out in Phoenix, Arizona.
So we called Santilli.
John Rao, the boss, the
real boss of the bosses,
the boss of the company called.
I gave Santilli to the phone--
I mean, on the
phone, to John Rao.
And they discussed the money,
the money side of this buying
operation, of this deal.
They didn't find a solution
because $25,000, according
to Santilli, wasn't enough.
>> REGINA: Sure.
OK, so we have--
we've written this down, Qwerty
films, "The Alien Autopsy"
a British comedy.
OK, somewhere in the mid 2000s.
So in summary, because we're
starting to run toward the end
of our conversation-- and I want
to ask a couple of questions
of Paola--
again, in piecing these
kinds of stories together,
you're both researchers and
you're both journalists.
First of all, what you
shared about the first film
that you saw is very moving.
And whether anyone ever
sees a frame of that or not,
you witnessed that.
That's your story.
You go through the rest of
your life with that experience.
And so I accept that as
credible because you're
a credible human being.
So anyone can do what
they wish with this.
The second one is mired
in all kinds of stuff,
but let's just say it was
representative of the being,
of a being in another film.
And now people can see little
tints of original footage
in this "Alien Autopsy"
British comedy if they wish.
Let that stay in its
area of controversy.
When it comes to piecing
these stories together,
because you do have such an odd
mixture of individuals with all
these different agendas
for being in this field--
some deliberately
for disinformation,
some deliberately as
professional skeptics,
some as almost delusional
trying to say everything's real.
It's all real.
And then you have you
guys, you researchers,
in there trying to
piece it all together.
And that's when it
comes to the field work
that you do, and you have
done, such as the due diligence
in going to London and far
beyond, and that you do.
And I just want to get
to something with you
on this, Paola, when it has
to do with the Roswell crash.
Because you actually went out
of your way, as you always do,
boots on the ground.
You went and met with the-- just
to talk about the Roswell crash
as a pixel of information to
complete this, the Roswell
story.
You went and talked
with the mortician.
>> HARRIS: --with
Glenn Dennis, yes.
Because in those days, I
was working for Maurizio
at the time.
And so I came out of
Italy, and Glenn Dennis
wasn't doing a whole
bunch of talking.
He was in his
90's, and everybody
was trying to reach him.
But I think the best
representation of Glenn Dennis
is in Paul David's movie,
you know, "Roswell."
Because what he
was asked to do--
and he told me this, personally.
And when somebody tells
me something personally
that comes from
the source, that's
when I really pay attention.
He told me that the
military had called him
and that had asked for six
children's caskets, six
children dead.
Of course, these beings
are short and, you know,
small and everything.
And he asked the
logical question,
where was the
automobile accident?
Where's the accident?
Because I want to go out there.
And he was told, no, just have
them ready because, you know,
we need them.
But if you watch the
several films on this,
Glenn did go out to the field.
He did have a friend who was
a nurse who sat with him.
And she said that it
was all, you know,
classified, top secret.
But as she was talking
to him, on a napkin,
she drew a picture
of a classic gray.
And just-- she showed it to
him, and then she burned it.
I think there was a
candle or something.
We've seen that image.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> HARRIS: And Glenn,
like Walter Haut,
who was the
information officer--
>> REGINA: So let's
talk about Walter Haut.
When the crash occurred
in 1947 in New Mexico,
he was the public
information officer
at the time for the military?
For whom?
>> HARRIS: For the military.
Yeah, for the military.
And he put out the
first newspaper
which everybody buys right
now, that a flying saucer--
>> REGINA: We can see
these guys together, OK,
in this photo right here.
>> HARRIS: Yeah.
Yeah, actually, these
men have passed on.
>> REGINA: And Clifford Stone
is in the middle sitting down.
>> HARRIS: Stone, and then let
me give credit to Tom Carey
and Don Schmitt because
that's all they do.
>> REGINA: They're on the
right in the photo, dark hair.
>> HARRIS: Yeah, and they've
written all the books
on Roswell.
Because they-- as they say,
it's a race with the Undertaker.
This happened so long ago, they
have to get all the witnesses.
>> REGINA: --before
they all die.
So now Walter Haut, or Haut--
however you say his name,
H-A-U-T--
you spoke with him.
>> HARRIS: I spoke with him.
He was, at the
time-- you know, he's
the founder of the UFO
Museum with Julie Schuster.
They're both gone.
I don't think he could
have come out with it.
But when he died, he
left a testament, a will,
to Don Schmitt that said he
physically saw the bodies.
And I happened to
be in that hangar.
They open it up every
once in a while.
And I was shown, in
the back room, what
looked like a kind of
a separate room that
had slabs on it, actually.
It was almost like
a refrigerated room
where they would have
had to refrigerate bodies
in those days.
And I was told that's
where the bodies were.
So Walter Haut left a death bed
testimony he had seen bodies.
>> REGINA: Because what happened
originally is he said Roswell
crash had happened.
Then he very quickly was made
to retract the statement.
Then we got into the
weather balloon story--
>> HARRIS: Balloon, the
mogul, project mogul,
and everybody's hypothesis.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> HARRIS: So I think what's
important to remember, Regina,
is that a lot of the truth is
hidden in the disinformation
that comes out.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> HARRIS: So what needs
to happen with people is
discernment.
How much of that story is true?
And how much of it has
been contaminated, just
like this film footage?
>> REGINA: And that's why I so
respect what you do, Maurizio,
and what do you do, Paola, to
be able to go and actually take
the time to have firsthand
experience of these things,
to piece it together and get
away from the disinformation
stories on both sides.
Get away from the delusion
and look at it for what it is.
And I want to ask you both this
question, then, wrapping up.
What is the power in these
firsthand experiences
and messages in people
who have witnessed
firsthand accounts of beings
from other places being
here on Earth?
What is the most--
what is the most
profound aspect of this
in your mind first, Maurizio?
>> BAIATA: Well, my answer
is that since I was visited--
and that occurred
some years ago--
1997 or 8, my life
changed totally.
I was convinced that
I had to go and keep
going all the time with my
work, just because people needed
to know that I won't say
the usual words like,
because we are not alone.
I would say that because
we have to understand
that we have a role, that we
need to understand that when
they will arrive--
maybe, one day--
even if we will not
be ready as a human species,
some individuals will be ready.
And I'm pretty sure
they were not militarys.
>> REGINA: They
were not military?
>> HARRIS: They
won't be military.
>> REGINA: Yeah, they
Yeah.
>> BAIATA: No, no, no, no.
>> REGINA: Yeah, because that's
based on fear and protection
and anxiety and xenophobia
and everything else.
>> BAIATA: But also,
because we were lied--
I mean, they kept the
secret for 70 years.
Why?
>> REGINA: Yeah, why?
>> BAIATA: I didn't get it.
I mean, until now, I don't have
a clue to answer to the reason
why they are keeping the secret.
>> REGINA: That's
the biggest question.
Everybody asks, why the secrecy?
>> BAIATA: Corso
would say because--
the reason is because they
can be dangerous to handle
if you are not ready.
But now the point is,
ready in what sense?
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BAIATA: I mean, as a
human being, like a normal,
as a spiritual person?
Or as a mechanical thinker?
Or what else?
I don't know.
I really don't know.
I have to trust that this
will happen before I die.
>> REGINA: You have the hope
that this will happen before
you die?
That someday, there
will be a presence here,
we're not going to freak out.
It'll be made known to
people who can handle it,
spiritually and otherwise.
>> BAIATA: Nobody
was freaked out.
Nobody was freaked out.
>> REGINA: No, I don't think so.
And we're doing
another interview also
with Paul Heinick, the
son of Alan Heinick, which
we'll get into at another time.
But the point is that
this disclosure is already
happening.
History Channel's been doing
"Project Blue Book" now.
They're in their third season
of production, I think.
So it's happening.
It's already happening.
And in its own way,
the alien autopsy,
in spite of all the
controversy, contributed to what
we can call a soft disclosure.
So with that, Maurizio,
I want to thank you
so much for taking the time.
It's very late in
Italy right now.
Thank you so much for taking
time with us today and sharing
this really important story.
>> BAIATA: I thank you, Regina.
Ciao, Paola, and ciao--
>> HARRIS: Ciao.
>> REGINA: Paola, that was a
wonderful answer from Maurizio.
And now I want to
know your take on it.
You have invested more
than half your life,
I think, researching this now.
And you've done it-- you've
gone through your own phases
of growth and learning
along the way.
But you've always
insisted on one thing.
You want firsthand accounts.
You don't want to hear
other people's hearsay
and just read other
people's books, which
I respect immensely.
So what does all this
mean in the larger
context for humanity, as
far as you're concerned?
>> HARRIS: Well, first of
all, on a personal level,
I think I was destined to do
this because this isn't normal
work.
So I was destined to do
this, meeting Heinick,
working with Maurizio.
And I think that
this is probably
the most important
question for humanity.
I will say, we are not alone.
You know, I mean,
he alluded to that.
It means a lot on a
psychological level,
on an institutional level--
maybe our institutions need
to change--
on an educational level, that we
are part of something greater,
that humanity is part of
something much greater.
And then, like Maurizio, I've
had my own contact situation
which opens up a
whole spiritual level.
And it makes us relook
at consciousness
as maybe the motivating
factor for everything we do,
and certainly, for
everything I do.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
Well, Paola, again, thank
you for your many years
of hard work.
And so until we see you here on
set with us again, thank you.
To get this and so much more,
you can go to paolaharris.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]